New doc | Preview authentication with subscription selector (#4255)
MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs-cli: docs-ref-conceptual/authenticate-azure-cli-preview.md

---
title: Use the subscription selector when logging into Azure.
description: Learn how to select a subscription from the new subscription selector available with the `az login` command.
author: dbradish-microsoft
ms.author: dbradish
ms.date: 04-09-2025
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: azure-cli
ms.tool: azure-cli
ms.custom: devx-track-azurecli
keywords: az login, authentication types, authentication methods, azure, cli login, az login powershell, cli login, sign in, azure cli  
---

# Choose your subscription when logging into Azure using Azure CLI

> With the release of Azure CLI [x.xx.xx](), there is a new login feature that provides a list of available subscriptions. Choose to keep the default subscription, or simply type the line number of the subscription you want to use. Here are the details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the preview release of Azure CLI [2.59.0](), there is a new login feature that provides a list of available tenant and subscriptions. Choose to keep the subscription and tenant selected by default, or simply type the line number of the subscription you want to use. Here are the details:
```

> * The subscription selector is a preview feature available in 64-bit Windows and macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The subscription selector is available in a preview version of Azure CLI 64-bit Windows and Linux or macOS.
```

> * The subscription selector is only available when using the `az login` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The subscription selector is only available when using the `az login` command interactively.
```

* Azure CLI [x.xx.xx]() must be installed to use the subscription selector. For information on installing the Azure CLI, see [How to install the Azure CLI](./install-azure-cli.md).

> * Installing the preview will over-write your current Azure CLI installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The preview will be installed in the directory you specify and will co-exist with your current Azure CLI installation.
```

* You will not be prompted to select a subscription when logging in with a service principal, managed identity or Web Account Manager (WAM).

## Prerequisite for macOS

If you are installing the preview in a macOS environment, Python runtime must be installed.

```bash
mkdir azure-cli-edge-build 
cd azure-cli-edge-build 

> git clone https://github.com/jiasli/azure-cli --branch login --depth 1 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
git clone https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli --branch login --depth 1 
```

python3 -m venv env 
. env/bin/activate 
pip install azdev 
azdev setup -c 
az login 
```

## Install

To install Azure CLI x.xx.x, follow these instructions:

> 1. Download [Microsoft Azure CLI.zip](https://artprodwus21.artifacts.visualstudio.com/A7b238909-6802-4b65-b90d-184bca47f458/5147fa83-336e-44ef-bbe0-c86b8ae86cbb/_apis/artifact/cGlwZWxpbmVhcnRpZmFjdDovL2F6Y2xpdG9vbHMvcHJvamVjdElkLzUxNDdmYTgzLTMzNmUtNDRlZi1iYmUwLWM4NmI4YWU4NmNiYi9idWlsZElkLzE0NTY3MC9hcnRpZmFjdE5hbWUvemlwLXg2NA2/content?format=file&subPath=%2FMicrosoft%20Azure%20CLI.zip ).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download [Microsoft Azure CLI.zip](https://aka.ms/AApydwn).
```

---
title: Use the subscription selector when logging into Azure.
description: Learn how to select a subscription from the new subscription selector available with the `az login` command.
author: dbradish-microsoft
ms.author: dbradish
ms.date: 04/09/2024
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: azure-cli
ms.tool: azure-cli
ms.custom: devx-track-azurecli
keywords: az login, authentication types, authentication methods, azure, cli login, az login powershell, cli login, sign in, azure cli  
---

# Choose your subscription when logging into Azure using Azure CLI

> With the preview release of Azure CLI [2.59.0](./release-notes-azure-cli.md#april-02-2024), there's a new login feature that provides a list of available tenants and subscriptions. Choose to keep the subscription and tenant that is selected by default, or type the line number of the subscription you want to use. Here are the details:

Reviewer 2: Maybe you could include that the main benefit of having the list of available tenants and subscriptions is that users dont have to manually set their subscription anymore.

Author: @daphnemamsft , good idea. done.

* The subscription selector is available in a preview version of Azure CLI 64-bit Windows, Linux, or macOS.
* The subscription selector is only available when using the `az login` command [interactively](./authenticate-azure-cli-interactively.md).
* The authentication preview must be installed to use the subscription selector.
* The preview is installed in the directory you specify, and will co-exist with your current Azure CLI installation.
* The authentication preview doesn't prompt you to select a subscription when you are logging in with a service principal, managed identity, or Web Account Manager (WAM).

## Prerequisite for macOS

If you're installing the preview in a macOS environment, Python runtime must be installed.

```bash
mkdir azure-cli-edge-build 
cd azure-cli-edge-build 
git clone https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli --branch login --depth 1 
python3 -m venv env 
. env/bin/activate 
pip install azdev 
azdev setup -c 
az login 
```

## Install

Install Azure CLI authentication preview by following these steps:

1. Download [Microsoft Azure CLI.zip](https://aka.ms/AApydwn).
1. Unzip the package to a folder.

> 1. Using Cmd.exe or PowerShell, call the Azure CLI by running `<unzipped folder path\>\bin\az.cmd`.

Reviewer 2: In both Powershell and the cmd terminal, when I try to use the folder path for the "Microsoft Azure CLI" folder, I receive an error if I include the folder path with the name as is (including the spaces). The error only goes away if I add dashes to the folder path. I have posted an example below:

![Screenshot 2024-04-09 161020](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs-cli/assets/95718086/4136f87c-6984-420c-a6cd-128f467fcce6)

Author: Your path contains spaces.  You need double quotes --> cd "c:\myPath\Microsoft Azure CLI\bin"

* The subscription selector is available in a preview version of Azure CLI 64-bit Windows, Linux, or macOS.
* The subscription selector is only available when using the `az login` command [interactively](./authenticate-azure-cli-interactively.md).
* The authentication preview must be installed to use the subscription selector.
* The preview is installed in the directory you specify, and coexists with your current Azure CLI installation.
* The authentication preview doesn't prompt you to select a subscription when you're logging in with a service principal, managed identity, or Web Account Manager (WAM).

With the current practice, the [az account set](/cli/azure/account#az-account-set) command is required to change your subscription. With the subscription selector at time of interactive login, you skip having to [list](/cli/azure/account#az-account-list), [set](/cli/azure/account#az-account-set) and [show](/cli/azure/account#az-account-show) your default subscription.

> ## Prerequisite for macOS

Reviewer: The pre-requisites are for Linux and MacOS

If you're installing the preview in a macOS environment, Python runtime must be installed.

```bash
mkdir azure-cli-edge-build 
cd azure-cli-edge-build 
git clone https://github.com/Azure/azure-cli --branch login --depth 1 
python3 -m venv env 
. env/bin/activate 
pip install azdev 
azdev setup -c 
az login 
```

> ## Install

Reviewer: Those installation steps are for Windows, they appear to also be for MacOs in the current layout of the page.

Install Azure CLI authentication preview by following these steps:

1. Download [Microsoft Azure CLI.zip](https://aka.ms/AApydwn).
1. Unzip the package to a folder.

> 1. Using Cmd.exe or PowerShell, call the Azure CLI by running `<unzipped folder path\>\bin\az.cmd`.

Reviewer: We prefer that the user goes to the "Microsoft Azure CLI\bin" directory and execute the cmd file from there using `& ./az.cmd`

> 1. **Close and reopen any active terminal window to use the newly installed preview.**

Reviewer: This is not necessary

> [!NOTE]

> > You must execute Azure CLI commands from the location where you installed the preview, or update your PATH environment variable to include the location. This article takes the approach of changing the working directory.

Reviewer: This sentence is correct but contradict what is on line 47.

## Log into Azure

To use the new subscription selector, first change your directory to where you installed the authentication preview, then use `./az.cmd login`.

```azurecli
cd <unzipped folder path>
./az.cmd login
```

If you installed the authentication preview in `C:\myPath\Azure CLI preview`, your syntax would look like this:

```azurecli
cd "C:\myPath\Azure CLI preview\bin"
C:\myPath\Azure CLI preview\bin> ./az.cmd login
```

## Choose your subscription

> 1. Note your default subscription indicated with an asterisk (`*`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Note the subscription and tenant currently selected are indicated with an asterisk (`*`).
```

1. Tap `Enter` to bypass the subscription selector and accept the default subscription.
1. Type a line number from the numbered list to change the default subscription.

Here's a screen print of what you can expect from the authentication preview:

:::image type="content" source="./media/authenticate-azure-cli-preview/subscription-selector.png" alt-text="Subscription selector":::

## Verify results

To verify your selected default subscription, use `./az.cmd account show`. If you installed the authentication preview in `C:\myPath\Azure CLI preview`, your syntax would look like this:

```azurecli
C:\myPath\Azure CLI preview\bin> ./az.cmd account show
```

## Check your version

Check the Azure CLI version of the authentication preview using `./az.cmd --version`.

```azurecli
C:\myPath\Azure CLI preview\bin> ./az.cmd --version

> ```

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is necessary
